feat(file upload): add file upload component (#2681)
patternfly/patternfly-next: src/patternfly/components/FileUpload/examples/FileUpload.md

---
title: File upload
section: experimental
cssPrefix: pf-c-file-upload
---

## Examples
```hbs title=Basic-file-upload
{{#> file-upload file-upload--type="form"}}
  {{#> input-group}}

>     {{#> form-control controlType="input" input="true" form-control--attribute='id="basic-file-upload" name="basic-file-upload" placeholder="Drag a file here or browse to upload" aria-label="upload a file"'}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{#> form-control controlType="input" input="true" form-control--attribute='id="basic-file-upload" name="basic-file-upload" placeholder="Drag a file here or browse to upload" aria-label="Upload a file"'}}
```

    {{/form-control}}
    {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
      Browse...
    {{/button}}
    {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control" button--attribute="disabled"}}
      Clear
    {{/button}}
  {{/input-group}}
  {{#> file-upload-text-area file-upload-text-area--attribute='aria-label="text-area-empty"'}}
  {{/file-upload-text-area}}
{{/file-upload}}
```

```hbs title=Browse-to-upload-file
{{#> file-upload file-upload--type="form"}}
  {{#> input-group}}
    {{#> form-control controlType="input" input="true" form-control--attribute='id="basic-file-upload-browse" name="basic-file-upload-browse" placeholder="Drag a file here or browse to upload" aria-label="select browse button to upload file"'}}

>     {{/form-control}}

Reviewer: What about a wrapping element for the input group, one for the text area, and one for the message? Like `pf-c-form-control__header` or something like that, `__main/content` for the textarea container, and `__footer` for the message.

Author: I think wrapping them is a good idea, not too sure about the naming though. I think that the file upload component is always going to have an input group at the top and a text area underneath, could you think of a situation where this wouldn't be the case?

@mattnolting what are your thoughts here?

---
title: File upload
section: beta
cssPrefix: pf-c-file-upload
---

## Examples

```hbs title=Basic-file-upload
{{#> file-upload file-upload--id="basic-file-upload"}}
  {{#> file-upload-input-group}}
    {{#> input-group}}

>       {{> file-upload-text-input

Author: Yeah I think so! Good point!

>       {{> file-upload-text-input

Author: This was discussed with design, the user has the ability to change the name of the file. But im sure that with the React implementation we will be able to analyze if this is something that we want.

>       {{> file-upload-text-input

Reviewer 2: Good question @matthewcarleton . I may be misremembering, but didn't we say that the user should not be able to enter a file name directly into this field as we wanted the browser to handle any access to the user's file system @christiemolloy . Can you confirm @mturley ? If that's the case, maybe this should be made read-only at all times.

>       {{> file-upload-text-input

Reviewer 3: ya I agree with you @mcarrano. It seems unlikely that they'd need to edit the name if they put the wrong file in there. I would guess (maybe there's research out there to back this up) most users don't expect to be able to edit a filename for this type of interaction.

>       {{> file-upload-text-input

Reviewer 4: Yes @mcarrano you're correct, that's what we discussed. In the implementation, it won't make sense to allow the user to edit a filename here, because it's not clear what effect that would have.

If the user either presses the Browse button and selects a file, or drags and drops a file into the component, then the read-only filename is populated from the selected file. If it were possible to change, it would have no effect, the file was already loaded.

I can only think of two things typing a filename in that box would do in theory: (a) the user manually specifies a path to a file on disk instead of browsing for it, or (b) the user is entering the name of a file to be created somewhere in the consuming app as a result of this form submission. (a) is not possible due to security restrictions (we need the browser to provide the file path and contents based on user action, JavaScript can't just ask the browser for the contents of an arbitrary file path), and (b) did not seem to be a need here.

In the future if we want to support a use case like (b) we could add a prop to make that field editable as a non-breaking change.

>         file-upload-text-input--aria-label="Upload a file"

Author: good suggestion

>         file-upload-text-input--aria-label="Upload a file"

Author: will implement :)

        file-upload-text-input--attribute='placeholder="Drag a file here or browse to upload"'
        }}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
        Browse...
      {{/button}}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control" button--attribute="disabled"}}
        Clear
      {{/button}}
    {{/input-group}}
  {{/file-upload-input-group}}

>   {{#> file-upload-textarea file-upload-textarea--aria-label="Text area empty"}}

Reviewer 5: "Text area empty" is really awkward to me; would "Text area is empty" or "Empty text area" be better?

  {{/file-upload-textarea}}
{{/file-upload}}
```

```hbs title=Upload-complete-non-editable
{{#> file-upload file-upload--id="browsed-file-upload-complete"}}
  {{#> file-upload-input-group}}
    {{#> input-group}}
      {{> file-upload-text-input
        file-upload-text-input--aria-label="Read only"
        file-upload-text-input--attribute='readonly value="Read only title"'
        }}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
        Browse...
      {{/button}}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
        Clear
      {{/button}}
    {{/input-group}}
  {{/file-upload-input-group}}

>   {{#> file-upload-textarea file-upload-textarea--aria-label="Text area empty" file-upload-textarea--attribute='readonly'}}Ssh-Rsa AAh3zJFkzjjakCJialksjfB3zJFkzzAAhhMskjjakCJialksjfB3z89z3zJFkz3 +kzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fczJFkzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fczJFkzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fc

Reviewer 5: Now the text area is not empty - should the label change?

  {{/file-upload-textarea}}
{{/file-upload}}
```

```hbs title=Upload-complete-editable
{{#> file-upload file-upload--id="drop-file"}}
  {{#> file-upload-input-group}}
    {{#> input-group}}
      {{> file-upload-text-input
        file-upload-text-input--aria-label="Read only filename"
        file-upload-text-input--attribute='readonly value="Sample.txt" aria-describedby="inputButton3"'
        }}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control" button--attribute='id="inputButton3"'}}
        Browse...
      {{/button}}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
        Clear
      {{/button}}
    {{/input-group}}
  {{/file-upload-input-group}}
  {{#> file-upload-textarea file-upload-textarea--aria-label="Text area"}}Ssh-Rsa AAh3zJFkzjjakCJialksjfB3zJFkzzAAhhMskjjakCJialksjfB3z89z3zJFkz3 +kzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fczJFkzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fczJFkzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fc
  {{/file-upload-textarea}}
{{/file-upload}}
```

```hbs title=Drag-file-hover-component
{{#> file-upload file-upload--id="drag-file-hover-component" file-upload--modifier="pf-m-drag-hover"}}
  {{#> file-upload-input-group}}
    {{#> input-group}}

>       {{> file-upload-text-input file-upload-text-input--aria-label="Drag a file here or browse to upload" file-upload-text-input--attribute='readonly placeholder="Drag a file here or browse to upload" aria-describedby="inputButton4"'}}

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
      {{> file-upload-text-input 
      file-upload-text-input--aria-label="Drag a file here or browse to upload" 
      file-upload-text-input--attribute=(concat 'readonly placeholder="Drag a file here or browse to upload" aria-describedby="' file-upload--id '-browse"')}}
```

        file-upload-text-input--attribute='required value="Sample.png" aria-invalid="true"'
        }}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
        Browse...
      {{/button}}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
        Clear
      {{/button}}
    {{/input-group}}
  {{/file-upload-input-group}}
  {{#> file-upload-textarea file-upload-textarea--aria-label="Empty text area"}}{{/file-upload-textarea}}
  {{#> file-upload-message file-upload-message--modifier="pf-m-error"}}
    {{#> form-helper-text form-helper-text--modifier="pf-m-error" form-helper-text--attribute='id="file-upload-error-helper-text" aria-live="polite"'}}
      We don't support this file type. Try again with a different file type.
    {{/form-helper-text}}
  {{/file-upload-message}}
{{/file-upload}}
```

```hbs title=File-upload-loading
{{#> file-upload file-upload--id="file-upload-loading" file-upload--modifier="pf-m-loading"}}
  {{#> file-upload-input-group}}
    {{#> input-group}}
      {{> file-upload-text-input
        file-upload-text-input--aria-label="Read only"
        file-upload-text-input--attribute='readonly name="file-upload-loading" value="Sample.png"'
      }}

>       {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}

Author: Yep treating it so that when the file is loading, you can still browse for a file which will override the current file, or you can cancel.

>       {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}

Reviewer 2: I think this would be handled by the React implementation but I would not expect the user to be able to click Browse while an upload is in progress. I just seems like it over complicates the React code. I'd say to disable Browse in this state. Do you agree @mturley ?

>       {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}

Reviewer 3: ok, maybe for the react implementation we should throw a warning that if they browse they will cancel their current upload. It could be confused that you can upload more than one file rather than replace the current upload.

>       {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}

Reviewer 4: I don't have a strong opinion on this, but it makes sense to me to block the Browse button during an upload since we have the Clear button which could function as a cancel action.

While the React component should support the asynchronous upload case for those who need it, I expect the majority use case (directly loading a small text file from the user's local machine into a form) to effectively happen instantly, and the in-progress view would never appear. In that case, the actual transfer of the file contents to a server would happen when the form is submitted, not when the file is selected.

In fact, I think that might be reason enough to call this component "File Input" rather than "File Upload".

>       {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}

Author: Based on everyone's thoughts I think it would be best to disable the browse button while the upload is happening.

@mcarrano what are your thoughts on @mturley name suggestion?

        Browse...
      {{/button}}
      {{#> button button--modifier="pf-m-control"}}
        Clear
      {{/button}}
    {{/input-group}}
  {{/file-upload-input-group}}
  {{#> file-upload-textarea file-upload-textarea--aria-label="Text area" file-upload-textarea--HasSpinner="true"}}Ssh-Rsa AAh3zJFkzjjakCJialksjfB3zJFkzzAAhhMskjjakCJialksjfB3z89z3zJFkz3 +kzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fczJFkzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fczJFkzMAjsauoox88aaZXphBx4fc
  {{/file-upload-textarea}}
{{/file-upload}}
```

## Documentation

### Overview

### Usage

| Class | Applied to | Outcome |
| -- | -- | -- |
| `.pf-c-file-upload` | `<form>`, `<div>` | Initiates the file upload component. **Required**. |
| `.pf-c-file-upload__input-group` | `<div>` | Initiates the file upload input group. **Required** |
| `.pf-c-file-upload__text-area` | `<div>` | Initiates the text area element. **Required** |

> | `.pf-c-file-upload__message` | `<div>` | Initiates the file upload message. |

Author: Right now there is only designs for the error state. However I could see someone having helper text underneath, thoughts?

> | `.pf-c-file-upload__message` | `<div>` | Initiates the file upload message. |

Reviewer 2: I don't feel strongly about this. My vote would not be to add another example.

> | `.pf-c-file-upload__message` | `<div>` | Initiates the file upload message. |

Reviewer 3: Ya I think it would be good. Is there any reason for it otherwise? I assumed it was for the success state but maybe I'm wrong.

> | `.pf-c-file-upload__message` | `<div>` | Initiates the file upload message. |

Author: Yeah we dont have a success state as of yet but I could see that coming in the future. For now I wont add a new example.
